Team211

Backlog with burn-down chart

https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B2D-8wBiA1unNFRDOTlaMWZQWGc/edit?usp=sharing


BUGS CAN BE REPORTED HERE:

https://github.com/team211/TwitterClient/issues

ID: team211

PW: comp3111


SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

I. Basic features

1.Sign in and out

Twitter provides a login page allowing users to login and logout as to access their account and protect it from unauthorized access without typing the access code but account email and password which is more user friendly. Furthermore, it will also benefit users having multiple accounts to change using different account in a easy way. 


Sign in button is shown in the welcome page. After clicking it, a widget(figure 1.1) allowing to enter username or email address and password is shown. 


After inputting the required information and press the sign in button, user should be directed to the home page after the username and password are approved. Error message should be popped if the username or password is incorrect. User allows to resubmit the authentication information. 

 On the other hand, user can log out the account by pressing the “logout” button under the setting menu. It should direct to the welcome page which is mentioned above. It allows user to sign in other Twitter account. 


2. Update profile

Twitter will allows user to edit the personal information page which is explored by followers. Background picture, profile picture, display name, position, personal website and description are allowed to modify.

Edit profile should be found under the setting menu and the Profile page , 6 personal information can be edited , including Photo, Header, Name, Location, Website and Bio. The profile and header can be changed to a desired photo which uploaded by the user through pressing the “Change photo” and “Change header” respectively. User allows to upload a photo file within 5 MB to the system. 

Furthermore, user can also modify the Name, Location, Website and Bio by typing in to the corresponding box in the profile page. 

Finally, user are told to input the user password to confirm the changes made after clicking the “save change” button at the bottom of the page. Changes should be done if the password is correct but an error message is shown if the password cannot be matched and resubmission is needed.  
   

3.Trend

Trend is a suggested following list generated by Twitter depends on who user follows, his/her location and what is immediately popular. It will be shown on the left column of their home page. Users may find what they interested in and hot topics through the trend list. By clicking any content inside the list,then a search of tweets about the  topic that the user clicked in would be carried out and the result are shown in list .

By default ,the trend list shown in the page is the list that is tailor-made to users by using an algorithm that  based on who the user is following  and the location of the user,but user could change the content of  Trend List by clicking the “Change” button,once the button is clicked,a window would be pop out  asking whether the user wants to change or not,if the user clicks “change” then another window would require the use to click the location that user is interested in .By clicking a “Done “ button,the users’ trend list would be set to  the specific location.




II. Relationship and interactions between users              

4.Follow and unfollow

Twitter can be set to notify and post the up-to-date Tweet on the user by following other Twitters, in other words, users can subscribe to others’ Tweets as a follower. The updates of followers will appear in the Home page of the user. More importantly, users can send direct messages to those they are following.  Notification can be canceled by unfollowing the followed twitter.

To follow a specific user, first click on his/her username or navigate to the user's profile. Click the "Follow" button under the user's profile photo. Besides, users can also click the "Follow" button next to any of the "Who to follow" suggestions. After clicking "Follow", the button will turn into a blue "Following" button indicating the follow action is successful. 

To unfollow the user, hover the mouse over the blue "Following" button, which will turn into a red "Unfollow" button. Click it and the user is unfollowed. 



5.Twitter Lists

A user may use Twitter Lists to classify people he/she might enjoy following by relationship, in order to view their tweets group by group.

(a) Create a list by providing the following information:

    1) A valid list name shall neither exceed 25 characters nor start with numerical characters. Otherwise, a warning prompt will appear to remind user to change another name.

    2) Optional list description shall be under 100 characters.

    3) A list can be public or private. Anyone can subscribe to others' public lists without following individual list members.

(b) Edit a list:

Besides list information can be updated, a user may add or delete a member to a list in the profile page of the member.  Number of members within a list shall not exceed 200.

(c) Delete a list:

A warning prompt will appear when user does the delete operation, to avoid mis-deleting.

(d) Share or follow a list:

Every list has its own URL. Only a public list's URL is able to be shared by message passing among users. A user can also view and follow others' public lists in their profile pages.

(e) View Tweets from a list:

By clicking corresponding list name shown in the List page, or entering a list's URL shared by others, a stream of Tweets from the list members will show up.

6.Block and unblock user

Twitter allows user to block other users. To block a user, first go to his/her profile page. Click the little black person icon on his/her profile page which will bring up a drop-down actions menu. Select "Block @[target's username]" from the options listed. After blocking, the icon next to the  little black person icon will show the word “Blocked”.

Blocked users cannot add the user's Twitter account to their lists. Also, blocked users won't be able to see the user's profile picture on their profile page or in their timeline. Moreover, the blocked users cannot have their replies or mentions show in the user's mentions tab (although these Tweets may still appear in search). The user and the one being blocked cannot Follow each other.

Users can unblock the blocked users. To unblock a user, first visit the blocked account's profile page on Twitter.Then there are two different ways to unblock the user. First way is to click the black person icon on that profile page and click "Unblock @[target's username]" from the drop-down actions menu. The other way is hover the cursor over the "Blocked" button (which is next to the black person icon), the word will change to "Unblock". Click it and the user is unblocked.
7. Direct message  

Twitter provides a chat room for communicating with friends privately. Message can be delivered to single or multiple users by entering their account name. 

a)Sending message

    Firstly, users can click on the gear button on the top right corner and click the “Direct messages” button from the drop-down menu, then a window will pop-up which shows the direct message history  in the form of a list. By clicking the “New message” button at top right, the window will be changed to a new window which shows a text field at the top that allows user to add the receiver of the message in the form of username, and a text box at the bottom which allows the user to type the message which cannot exceed 140 characters. Both text fields cannot be empty, otherwise the “Send message” button will remain grey and unclickable. To send the message, click the blue “Send message” button. User will see an error message if an invalid username is inputted. 

b)Deleting message

   By Clicking  the conversation containing the message that the user would like to delete, a trash icon will appear. Click on the trash icon then a small window will pop up and ask the user whether he/she really wants to delete the message. By clicking the “Delete message” button, then the message will be deleted from both sender and recipient’s message history. 

III. Tweet     

8. Post Tweet

User can post Tweet, which is a 140-character message, on Twitter. To post a Tweet, user first need to go to homepage of his/her Twitter account. Then there are two ways to post a Tweet. There is a white text box on the left side of the page with the sentence "Compose new Tweet...". Click on the text box and type the Tweet.  Click the blue "Tweet" button under the text box to post the Tweet. The other way is to click the blue compose new Tweet button in the top navigation bar. A text box will then pop-up where user can type the Tweet and post it. User will immediately see his/her Tweet in the timeline on the homepage.

A Tweet requires at least 1 character and at most 140 characters. While the Tweet message is not valid, the "Tweet" button at the bottom remains grey and unclickable.

Besides posting Tweets via words only, Twitter allows users to include a picture in Tweets. When user begins a new Tweet, he/she can click on the grey camera icon at the bottom left of the text box to include a picture. A pop-up window will appear prompting user to locate the image in his/her computer which he/she wants to upload. After user selects an image, the image thumbnail will appear at the bottom of the text box and the camera icon will be highlighted in blue. The character count of that Tweet will update to include the image's shortened URL. Click "Tweet" button to post the Tweet. If user no longer wishes to share that image, just click the x in the thumbnail to delete the currently selected image. The image uploaded will be rescaled to fit into the media display on the expanded Tweet.

There are regulations for uploading picture. Only one picture can be included in each Tweet and its size needs to be 3MB or smaller. Only images in gif, jpeg, and png format are allowed. If user choose any invalid picture, the Tweet will remain the same and won't show the image's thumbnail. User can upload another picture. 

A Tweet can either include only text, only picture, or include both text and picture. 

9.Delete Tweet 

Twitter allows users to delete any of their published Tweets. If a user wants to delete a tweet, he/she first needs to go to Profile page. Then locates the Tweet he/she wants to delete. Hover the mouse over the Tweet and a red "Delete" button will appear at the bottom of the message. Click the red "Delete" button. A warning window will pop-up asking the user if he/she really wants to delete that Tweet. Click the blue "Delete" button to confirm the delete action. If the user doesn't want to delete that Tweet, he/she can click the grey "Cancel" button to cancel the whole delete action.  After the deletion, the Tweet will immediately be deleted and no longer appear in timeline or profile page.  

10. Retweet and Favorites

Twitter allows users to repost others’ Tweet on their own profile so that their followers can also read the Tweet. While the first poster of that Tweet will still be the original user. 

Twitter also allows users to add others’ Tweet to favourite, which can let the poster of that Tweet knows that someone likes his/her post. User can also find their favourite Tweets easily by opening the Favourite list on the left column of their home page. Tweets that have been favourited will be represented by an orange star icon on the top-right of the Tweet.

Users can retweet other’s tweets by clicking the “Retweet” button and they can add others’ tweets to their favourites by clicking the “Favourite” button on the tweet. 

In the expanded view, summary view or detailed view of the tweet, there are 2 counts showing how many people retweeted and how many people favorited the tweet. 

Once the user clicks on the retweeted count, a list of who retweeted the tweet will appear. Similarly, if the favorited count is clicked, a list of those favorited the tweet will be shown.










11.Reply Tweet

Users can post replies on others' Tweets or their own Tweets.To post a reply, user will first need to hover over the target Tweet and click on "Reply" at the bottom of that Tweet. A Tweet box will then pop up with the @[username of the account you are replying to] already added at the beginning of the Tweet. The whole reply can have no more than 140 words. If more than 140 words are inputted, the blue “Tweet” button will turn grey prohibiting user to post that reply.  Upon completion of typing the reply, user can click "Tweet" to post it.




IV. Others requirements

12.Search 

Twitter provides the search function. There are three types of search - searching keywords in Tweets, searching username and searching Hashtags. To start searching, click on the grey search box with the word "Search" at the top navigation bar. Once user click the input box, it turns white and allows user to type in any character(s) as the keyword for searching. To search, user can then press enter key on keyboard or click the little magnifying glass icon next to the text box. Results of the search will then be shown.

If user simply inputs character(s) in the search box, Twitter will search for the keywords in any Tweets posted by all Twitter users.

If the user inputs a “@” at the start, Twitter will search for the keywords after “@” in any Twitter users’ usernames. So in case user only type a “@” and search, no result will be found.

Hashtags are used to mark keywords or topics in a Tweet. They are included by users organically to categorize Tweets and help them show more easily in Twitter Search. The symbol of hashtag is “#”, users can add this symbol before a relevant keyword or phrase anywhere in the Tweet, but the phrase or keyword should not contain spaces. All other Tweets tagged with the same hashtag will be shown to users if they click on a hashtagged word in any message. If a user types a Hashtag in the search box, Twitter will return all the Tweets containing the same tag.

13. View summary

Hovering the mouse over a Tweet, users may find the red “View summary” button.

This function is actually called a Twitter Card. Websites have to include <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary"> to the HEAD section of the HTML in order to use Twitter Card. When the tweet contains a link to an article on a website that included the aforementioned HTML code in the HEAD section, there will be a “View summary” button on the tweet instead of Expand. The summary will provide the preview of the article for the users. If the user click anywhere on the preview, the user will be navigated to the source of the article.

14. Auto-Hyperlink and Auto-shorten links

Twitter will analyze if there is any link, then convert them to Hyperlink. Twitter will also shorten the links contained in every tweet. The link will only take up 19 characters. This feature aims to make sharing simple because the links are shorter. This feature also increase internet security. If users click on the links that are reported as malicious, Twitter will redirect them to a warning page. The texts shown in tweets still remain unchanged apparently, but the actual URL is changed.

 15. System language

Twitter provides multiple language support, which allows users to use Twitter in their preferable language. For convenience, Twitter will be shown in the browser language which a user is using at the first time. Users can modify the language setting once they have logged in.

To change language settings, user needs to click on the gear icon in the upper right hand corner of the screen and select "Settings" from the drop-down menu. In the Account settings page, user can choose any language provided from the drop-down menu labeled "Language". Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the blue "Save changes" button. If user did not make any change to the settings, the "Save changes" button will remain grey and unclickable.

After clicking the "Save changes" button, a text box will pop-up and user will be prompted to enter his/her password. After inputting a correct password, click the blue "Save Changes" button to confirm the change. If user does not want to make any change on language setting, he/she can click the grey "Cancel" button. This will bring the user back to the Account settings page with all original settings. If user inputs wrong password, this will also bring the user back to the Account settings page with all original settings.

Upon successful modification on language setting, user will see the Account settings page in new language.


 








Product backlog


1. Sign in and out

As an guest, I want to use all the functions of Twitter.

As an user who is signed in at a public place, I do not want my account to be used by person who uses the same computer after me.


2. Update profile

As an user, I want to be capable to update my location, photo, banner and brieflt describe myself, so I can customize my Twitter and other can find me more easily.


3. Trend

As an user, I want to know what are the current hot topics, top stories, so I can have tons of topics to chat with my friends.


5. Follow

As an user who wants to know others' the most updated status or wants to get differnt kind of news, I want to subscribe to others so that I can get the most updated status and news from them appeared on my Home.


6. Unfollow

As an user feeling bored to specific kind of news or loath to some users, I want to unsubscribe from them.


6. Lists

As an user working with his/her teammates on some cooperated jobs, I want to have a curated group of my teammates, and I want to subscribe to other teams so that I can get some news from other team.


7. Block and unblock user

As an user who receives advertisements every day, I want to block those sending advertisement to me so I can have a better environment to socialize with others.

As an user wrongly blocked another user, I want to cancel the blocking to that user so that I can continue to receive tweets from that user.


8. Direct maessage

As an user who wants to have a deeper understanding of another person, I want to chat with him/her privately, so our personal information will not be exposed to the public.


9. Post tweet

As an user, I want to share every thing happenning around me via texts, photos and videos.


10. Delete tweet

As an user who said something inappropriate, I want to remove what I say and applogize, so I can be prevented from offending others.


11. Reply tweet

As an user viewing a tweet that the user is really interested in, I want to have further discussions with the original poster so that we can exchange our views.


4. Rewteet

As an user who has a great deal of followers, I want to share some interesting tweets or inspiring quotes quickly with all of my followers, so I can acknowledge others, easily stay active on twitter and proliferate good information, good feelings and connect more people to each other.


5. Favourites

As an user, If I read a really interesting tweet that I want to always re-read it, I want to save it and I also want to notify the original poster that his/her tweet is great.


12. Search

As an user who is interesed in specific people or specific kind of news, instead of following those people, I want to find those people and news easily by typing keywords or hashtags.


13. View summary

As an user who always reading articles and news on Twitter, I want to have some brief summary under the link to the article, so I can easily to filter those I am not interested in and save time.


14. Auto hyperlink and auto shorten links

As an user who always share links to others, espcially long links, I want to have my links coverted to Hyperlink automatically, so I do not need to convert it one by one by clicking the buttons thousands times. Also, I want my long links easy to be remembered and share-friendly, so the click rate of the links will increase.


15. System language

As an user who does not know English, I want Twitter can also be displayed in our language, so I can connect to the world.




